Hey everyone, I'm Chris Crow, campus pastor for Crossaway Christian Church's Millford campus here in Southern New Hampshire, where our mission is all about practicing the way of Jesus together as we pursue God, build community, and unleash compassion.
And pray that what you hear today will help you experience God more deeply and live more and more like Jesus.
Psalm 23.
I'm excited about this series.
It's going to be seven weeks, as I'd mentioned.
Now let me just begin as a way of introduction into the introduction of this series.
When you think of the most popular and familiar Bible verse, what comes to mind?
What would you say?
It's a little trivia time.
John 3.16, anybody have that one?
Top 50 most popular Bible verses.
Number one is John 3.16.
You can get an extra donut, next donut Sunday.
Okay, for that, if you raised your hand.
On that list of the top 50, perhaps the most familiar Christian non-Christian audience is Psalm 23.
In fact, in the 1800s, Psalm 23 became part of most eulogies when somebody would die.
So if you go to a funeral today or a celebration of life, you'll hear Psalm 23 probably.
It's that familiar with our world.
And so we titled this experiencing Psalm 23.
I'm going to read Psalm 23.
If you'll take your eyes there, I hope you have a copy of the Scriptures with you, whether it's hard copy like I have here or digital.
It doesn't matter.
If you've memorized Psalm 23, that would be even better.
That's what we're going to try to do in this seven week series is memorize Psalm 23.
Here's what the word of the Lord says through David.
The Lord is my shepherd.
I shall not want.
He makes me lie down in green pastures.
He leads me beside still waters.
He restores my soul.
He leads me in paths of righteousness for his namesake.
And even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil for you or with me.
Your rod and your staff, they comfort me.
You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies.
You anoint my head with oil.
And my cup overflows.
And surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life.
And I shall dwell in the house of the Lord temporarily."
What's it saying?
Just making sure that you're looking at your Bible.
Charles Spurgeon was a hero of mine.
Are you familiar with Charles Spurgeon?
One of the greatest preachers, I think, the world has ever known.
And so he pastored or shepherded a church in London for many years called the Metropolitan Tabernacle.
And he said this about Psalm 23.
All things abound, not because I have all things that abound, not because I have good store of money in the bank, not because I have skill and wit with which to win my bread, but because the Lord is my shepherd.
Here's a man who was immensely popular, but immensely criticized.
And he went through a whole lot in his lifetime.
I've read several of his biographies.
And so he understood that Jesus Christ was his shepherd.
He needed a shepherd to be able to do what he did.
Louis Giglio, I'm not sure if you're familiar with Louis Giglio.
Does that name sound familiar?
Passion City Church.
He wrote a book recently called Don't Give the Enemy a Seat at your table.
And he said this about Psalm 23.
Again, I'm quoting, your shepherd didn't just say you're going to the valley.
He said you were going through the valley.
In other words, you're going to make it.
You're going to make it.
I don't know about you, but there have been times I thought I was going to the valley, but I never come out the other side of the valley.
But you, according to Louis Giggly, and I believe what I just quoted, you're going to make it because you're going through the valley.
I've titled this first message, The Pastoral Psalm, an introduction to Psalm 23, The Pastoral Psalm.
Now, when I go into the Greek language, which is New Testament, New Testament was written originally in Greek, and I go and I call it, we're going Greek on you, right?
I'm going Greek on you, and it's Chibani time, right?
When I give you Hebrew words, and the Old Testament was originally written in Hebrew, it's gonna be a little bit different, right?
And so it's matzabal time.
It's matzabal time.
Okay, so I'm gonna give you a Hebrew word for shepherd.
Roah, roah, R-O-A-H, roah.
And it means to protect, to lead, or to feed.
That's the Hebrew word for shepherd.
That's the word that's used in Psalm 23.1.
Now in the new Testament, it's poi-men.
And poi-men means pastor.
And so that would, I guess, be my role or my distinction officially, I would imagine, is the role or function of a pastor, a poi-men.
Now listen, every Christian, when you're born again, will have a pastor in your life.
Nobody ever gets born again without having a shepherd over them.
Does that make sense?
So there is no becoming a Christian, then all of a sudden you're out there without a shepherd to watch over you, to protect you, to feed you, and sometimes even to correct you.
Did you know that was sometimes the pastor's job, is to do all of those things.
That's why we have to be careful because we're going to receive the stricter judgment, those who are holding this type of a role, a pastoral role.
Billy Graham had a pastor.
I'm not sure if you're familiar with Billy Graham's pastor.
His name's Don Wilton.
He's still alive.
Don is.
Can you imagine pastoring Billy Graham?
Everyone has a pastor or shepherd.
This is God's design.
And so if you determine that cross-way Milford is the home, the church that you are to be a part of, that God has called you here, then I would have been chosen by the Lord to be your pastor.
Beyond us in the church, larger than just crossway mill for downtown in the pond, it would be Dave Ripper, who also is a pastor.
Now Dave Ripper is also a pastor to me.
See, everyone has pastors and shepherds.
It's very important.
God designed it this way.
So to understand Psalm 23, we must see it from a pastoral perspective.
Now you might not hold a pastor position
But you have pastored people before.
How many people are a parent here?
Mom or dad raise your hand.
Well, I refer to dads often through the years as pastor dad.
See, when I was a youth pastor, they would look to me as kind of like the one who was to pastor their teenagers.
And there is a degree that I was responsible for that.
But before me is pastor dad.
Because you dads are the shepherds of your children.
You're the spiritual leaders, and so aren't you, moms.
So everybody understands pastoral ministry, but not enough, maybe a formal positional way like I hold, but everyone is connected to pastoral ministry in some way.
So we're gonna look at Psalm 23 in light of all of that.
I was at Monday School, which we have another one tomorrow night.
It was wonderful.
Almost 50 people, part of Monday School.
You know, statistically, that's just crazy for the size of our campus.
That many.
Well, last Monday, I was sitting around the table and there was a gentleman that mentioned that he was being shepherded by God, that God shepherds him.
In that moment of time, the Holy Spirit just confirmed inside of me and the Lord spoke to me and says, Chris, I'm shepherding you.
I am pastoring you.
It was such a blessing.
Still room on the art called Monday School.
So if you want to join us tomorrow night, if not, then you're just going to be caught up in the flood.
So anyway,
Just a little plug for Monday school.
Let's try to beat 50 people.
Come tomorrow, you don't have to sign up.
I wanna look at this Psalm 23 in an introductory way and to do that, we're gonna have to look into the life of David.
We're gonna have to look, we're gonna get into it verse by verse and sometimes word by word, but not for this morning.
I wanna look at David.
And when you think of David, what's some of the first thoughts that come to your mind?
Just say them out loud.
King.
Man after God's own heart.
Shepherd.
Nobody's thinking about Goliath.
Goliath?
You thought about Goliath?
There you go.
Killing a giant, David.
Killing a giant.
But before he was a giant killer, there's a part of his life that doesn't get a whole lot of attention.
That is David who was a shepherd.
David understood pastoral ministry.
So when he writes Psalm 23, we're going to see it in light of that.
So let's get into the life of David.
And I want to look at four ways that God pastors us.
Ready?
Four ways in the life of David, but also in our life as God is pastoring us.
Number one, we'll talk about spirituality, spirituality.
Now I'm not talking about new age spirituality.
I'm not talking about crystals and terracards and all of that nonsense.
I'm talking about spirituality that's biblically based, that is anointed by God, that glorifies God, that is rooted in the historic Orthodox Christian faith.
I'm talking about the Holy Spirit that indwells us, that produces spirituality.
Does that make us any different?
Okay, when I say spirituality, there's a lot of spirituality going on in our culture, but it's not of God.
It's of the enemy.
So let me just use that word.
I hope that you understand the differentiation there.
You understand my heart on that.
What's he mean by spiritual?
What's he mean?
Chris, what do you mean?
Well, here's what I mean.
that your heart is for God and your heart is becoming more like God's.
That's spirituality.
Someone said, when I mentioned David, a man after God's own heart, right?
Second chronicles, you'll see this on the screen, 16, nine, if you could bring that up, that would be awesome.
Here's what it says in the second chronicle.
And those who had set their hearts, spirituality is what?
Based on the verse.
You're setting your heart.
This is what you do.
This is your focus, it's verticality, not horizontal, it's vertical.
And so it says, you have set your hearts to seek the Lord God of Israel, came after them from all the tribes of Israel, Jerusalem, to sacrifice to the Lord the God of their fathers.
Let's keep going if you could.
The next slide, and you'll notice we're gonna go over to chapter 17, Jehoshaphat.
Jehoshaphat was a great guy, great leader.
For a while, you'll notice Jehoshaphat, his son reigned in his place and strengthened himself against Israel.
Very important spirituality is strengthening yourself in the Lord.
He placed forces in all the fortified cities of Judah, and he set garrisons in the land of Judah in the cities of Ephraim that Asa, his father, had captured.
And the Lord is with Jehoshaphat because he walked in the earlier ways of his father, David.
He did not seek the bales.
Remember this, bales above,
The arch enemy of God is Satan.
Anything connected to Baal or Baal worship is evil and of Satan.
And so here's Jehoshaphat.
Keep it right there.
That's good.
This next verse.
Keep it right there because Jehoshaphat, his spirituality was strong, but he had his moments.
But sought the God of his father and walked in his commandments, not according to the practices of Israel.
Therefore, the Lord established the kingdom in his hands.
Some great things were happening under the leadership of Jehoshaphat.
And all Judah brought tribute to Jehoshaphat.
And he had great riches and honor.
His heart was courageous in the ways of the Lord.
It's amazing.
And furthermore, he took the high places in the ashram out of Judah, the high places that Jezebel and all of the Baal worship, those are high places.
They're idols.
They're altars.
of incredible evil that these kings, some of these kings before Jehoshaphat had erected and Jehoshaphat is then going to bring those down.
He's doing such great things.
But in the life of Jehoshaphat, the ending wasn't so well.
The ending wasn't so well.
Because he made alliances with the world.
Now here's the point.
We're looking at spirituality.
When we make alliances with the world, in other words, when the world appeals to us more than the kingdom of God, then our spirituality will end up like Jehoshaphat's.
David was born into a day and age or a period of time that was dead spiritually.
The people of God had gone horizontal and lost their verticality.
There was a need for revival.
in the nation of Israel and Judah.
They were fleshly and carnal.
And David emerges as a man who is sensitive to the Spirit of God.
He's sensitive to the things of God.
He thinks about God.
God is in his heart.
He wants to worship.
He wants to praise God.
This is David's spirituality.
He was a spiritual man.
His pastor or his shepherd was who?
God.
And God was shepherding David.
David had a heart after God's own heart.
What was important to God became important to him.
David didn't hold back any part of his life, and let me just encourage you, somebody who is spiritual does not hold back.
They lay everything down, and this is what I've learned about Charlie Kirk.
He would go into places where there would be resistance, where there would be danger, where there would be people that didn't agree with him, people that said cruel things to him.
But yet he did it anyway.
He would say, and I would say based on scripture, that David had a heart after God, meaning what was on God's mind, wanted to be on his mind.
What was in God's heart, wanted to be in his heart.
A pastor is to be a spiritual person.
The church of Jesus is to be a spiritual church.
Sheep that hear God's voice.
Hear the shepherd's voice and follow it.
John chapter 10, you'll see it on the screen.
John 10, this is all about shepherding.
It says this, truly, truly is this Jesus talk.
I say to you, he who does not enter the sheepfold, but the door, but the door, but climbs in by another way.
That man is a thief and a robber.
Let me just stop there and say, Jesus is saying that he's the only way to heaven.
He's the only way to heaven.
In other words, you can't try to come up another way.
That's what the point of the passage is trying to say.
And so I would say to you, out of love and compassion for you, that if you don't know Jesus Christ as your Savior, Buddha's not gonna get you there.
Muhammad's not gonna get you there.
Okay, your own good works are not gonna get you there.
Trust me, I tried.
It doesn't work.
My works aren't good enough.
Jesus, in his finished work on the cross, he's the one.
And so he says that in the text.
You can't go up another way.
The man is a thief and a robber, but he who enters by the door
Who's the door?
Jesus.
Is the shepherd of the sheep and to him, the gatekeeper opens.
The sheep hear his voice.
So spirituality is all about what?
Hearing his voice.
Do you hear the voice of the Lord?
You know you're doing well if you're hearing the voice of the Lord regularly.
They hear his voice, it says there.
What else does it say?
If he hears voice, he calls his own sheep by name.
There's this personal relationship.
There's this ongoing communication.
communion with the Savior, and he leads them out.
And when he brought out all his own, he goes before them, and the sheep do what?
Follow.
So spirituality is what?
I don't want to hear over and over again in the rest of my earthly days.
Well, I believe in Jesus.
I believe in Jesus.
The Bible says that devils believe.
The question would be, do you follow him?
Do I follow him?
That's spirituality.
So we have to ask ourselves some questions.
David followed the Lord.
He had a heart for God.
This is who he was.
He opened Psalm 23 by saying, we've read it.
The Lord is, next word, my, it's personal.
Listen, you're not going to get to heaven through somebody else.
You're going to stand before God.
He's going to say, what about you and me?
What's my relationship with you?
Have you repented of your sins?
Have you trusted in my son as the only way to heaven?
Have you laid down your life before him and follow him?
That's what he's gonna ask you.
Can you say the Lord is mine?
Mine?
He is mine.
Number two, let's look at sincerity, sincerity.
Take your Bible and go to Psalm 78.
Let's turn some pages here.
I won't put everything on the screen.
Boy, you'll get soft.
I don't want that to happen.
Most Christians don't open their Bibles anymore.
Did you notice that?
Did you know that?
Statistically.
So we don't want to be that way.
And so open your Bible.
Psalm 78.
Look at verse 70.
78, 70.
Let me talk about sincerity or if we put the word
integrity in that outline about David.
He was a sincere man.
Psalm 78, 70 says, he chose David, his servant.
Notice this.
He chose David, his servant.
And he took him from where?
The sheep folds.
Do you remember how that happened?
It was Samuel that went to the sons of Jesse and said, let me see your sons.
Let me talk to him.
Boom, boom, boom.
He starts going down the line and all of that.
Remember that story?
If you have any other son, Samuel said, well, I do.
He's like, I think he's over there on the other side of the hill with the sheep.
Let me go have a conversation with him.
Wonderful.
I love it.
Well, here's a little reference to it.
He took him from the sheep holds, verse 71, from following the nursing use, he brought him to shepherd Jacob, his people, Israel, his inheritance.
Now, verse 72, with upright heart,
He shepherded them and guided them with his skillful hand.
Isn't that beautiful?
Can we ask ourselves a question application?
Do you have an upright heart?
What is an upright heart?
What is a blameless heart?
Is anybody here completely all the time always blameless?
I didn't think any hands would go up on that.
Nobody's hands could go up on that.
There have been times that I have not been blameless.
Now it's not the perfection of your life, it's the direction of your life.
So if the direction of your life is to please God, glorify God, honor Him, do the best that you can to follow Him, do the things that He's called you to do.
That is a person who is sincere.
And you're thinking because the enemy has gotten into your mind because you messed up this past week or did something, thought something, said something or whatever, that you're a fake, you're a phony, you're a hypocrite, you're not
You just struggle like the rest of us.
So get back up again.
Get back up again.
Just keep following Jesus.
Because your heart is sincere.
You're not faking it to make it.
You're just in a struggle.
Sincerity.
There's a whole movement now on organic foods, right?
You'll go poor trying to buy organic foods.
I would encourage you to stay as organic as you can.
No artificial ingredients.
There's even a grocery store called, I have a picture over here, Whole Foods Market.
And so if you go in there, there are a lot of crunchy people in there, a lot of crunchy people.
And so it's a wonderful store.
I shop there once in a great while because it's a little pricey, but you'll pay a little bit more.
No artificialality.
Years ago, this is going to date me.
You'll see a picture on the next slide.
Carnation's instant milk.
It's like, really?
I mean, that's not milk.
You know, it's like powder and you mix it together back in the old days and then you drink it.
It's not real.
But I know that you're thinking, I made comments about David being sincere.
You're thinking, what about Bathsheba?
See, I'm surprised nobody said Bathsheba when I asked him when you think first thoughts about David.
It was very traumatic in David's life.
How did David get to that place?
Well, maybe little decisions here and there, the erosion of maybe some devotion and maybe being in places he shouldn't have been or maybe allowing his thoughts to go places he shouldn't have been, his eyeballs going some places he shouldn't have.
And over time, it just kind of erodes that devotion, that commitment and things happen.
But we know that David came back.
How do we know that David came back?
Are you familiar with Psalm 51?
You'll see that he comes back strong.
Is there consequences for the things that he did?
Yeah, there's still consequences.
It's an amazing story, David.
I love the story of David.
I think I get hope out of the story of David.
But what I want us to look at is the pastoral ministry or shepherding
of David because we're going to get into Psalm 23 in the next six weeks after this and we're going to see some things that I think are going to be helpful to all of us.
But first is spirituality we see in his life.
This is why God's doing this for us.
He wants us to have a heart for him.
He wants us to love him and to be close to him, to think about him.
He wants us to be sincere people too.
Let me give you another one, a third one, solitude.
To do this, let me go to 1 Samuel with you.
This is going to be maybe a little bit tougher book to find.
1 Samuel, look at chapter 17.
1 Samuel 17, 31.
Before David stood before the public as a giant killer, he was being trained in private.
God's going to take you to places of solitude before he sets you before other people.
for greater impact.
You're gonna have to spend some time in the Arabian desert, not literally, but Paul did for three years before he became the great apostle.
You see, if you're in a wilderness right now or you're in a place that we would call a desert, that's really not a bad thing.
You're gonna feel inside like, I don't know if I can deal with this much longer, God.
How much longer do I have to stay in this place?
Why do I have to be alone?
Well, because he's going to say to you, because I want you and me.
This is about you and me right now.
I want you to hear me.
I want you to hear my voice like never before.
I want you to see me like you've never seen me before.
So there needs to be solitude for a season.
This is what God's doing.
He's pastoring you.
He's shepherding you.
That doesn't mean we don't have each other.
This is important for us to be together.
I'm not minimizing that.
But to emphasize this,
point of solitude.
What did I say?
1 Samuel 1731, when the words of David, words that David spoke were heard, they repeated them before saw and he sent for him.
And David said to saw let no man's heart fail because of him, your servant will go and fight with this Philistine.
This is the story of Goliath, right?
And Saul said to David, you are not able to go against the Philistine to fight with him for you or but a youth.
And he has been a man of war from his youth.
But David said to Saul, your servant used to keep the sheep for his father.
Who was with David on the hillside?
Who was with him?
Just the sheep and God.
And so he's saying here, back in that day, he's talking to Saul, but David said to Saul, your servant used to keep the sheep for his father.
And when there came a lion or a bear and took a lamb from the flock, I went after and struck him and delivered it out of its mouth.
And if he arose against me, I caught him by his beard and struck him and killed him.
Your servant has struck down both lions and bears, and this uncircumcised Philistine shall be like one of them, for he has defied the armies of the living God.
Hallelujah.
All of that was happening in solitude.
I have an image on the screen.
If you'll bring that up, it's a shepherd with a sheep.
Don't know where.
Probably a long way from his home.
taking the sheep out there and grazing.
This is what they would do.
They would graze up and down the hillsides.
And so the shepherd is there.
And I just want to encourage you, if you're feeling alone, I remember that.
I remember just feeling that complete abandonment at times.
I was like, God, I don't even know if you'd like me anymore.
I said, where are you?
Because I don't feel your presence, Lord.
I don't see you at work.
There was a lot going on in our world.
This is like 20 years ago.
And I went out of prayer drive with the Lord.
And I said, Lord, I just need to know that you're with me.
I need to know because I feel completely abandoned.
I feel alone.
I feel isolated.
Why are you doing this, Lord?
Why are all these things happening?
And then I said this.
I said, Lord, what am I going to get out of this?
And He said to me, almost audibly, you're going to get me.
You're going to get me.
That's what you're going to get out of it.
When you're in solitude, God is doing some amazing things.
And if you feel that you're completely isolated and it's just you and God, it's going to be a beautiful thing.
Just hold on because He's pastoring you.
He's shepherding you.
It's what he's doing.
The Lord is my shepherd.
I can remember in New York, we lived in New York.
I know we were suffering for Jesus in New York, Maine.
I know, I know, I've heard it all.
You lived in New York, Maine.
Yeah, we did.
And it was a blessing.
And it was hard.
There's an image on the screen.
This is where I found solace and solitude with the Lord.
It's called Harbor Beach.
It's my favorite beach.
in New York, and so I would walk down that plank there, and it's not me in the picture, but there are many mornings that I'd be walking on Harbor Beach.
And there would be a tear in my eye, and I'd be like, God, I know that you're here.
You're my pastor, you're my shepherd.
There were times when I was on that beach right there on that same sand, that guy was walking.
And I would laugh.
I would have so much joy.
People must have thought I was cuckoo for cocoa puffs.
I just start bursting out laughing.
Because the joy was, I was like, God, I know that you're here and I get to live here.
I can walk this beach every day.
Solitude is so important.
Very important for our Christian life.
Spend some time alone with the Lord.
Stay there with Him.
Number four, simplicity, simplicity.
Life has gotten complex, would you agree?
No, complex.
Whatever happened is simple.
Read a book by Tom Rainer called Simple Church.
The church gets complicated.
It doesn't have to be.
You know, where everything has to be done just right.
And we come in here and everybody's like, Steph.
And it's like, oh no.
You know, it doesn't have to be complicated.
We just come here and we love each other and we be together and get to be known and know each other and support one another, encourage one another.
Let's not make this thing complicated.
God has brought us together here.
We need to get back to some simplicity.
I'll show you an image on the screen.
Here's a picture of my car.
It's a little old.
I need an update.
Can you imagine, I mean, that would be really cool to have in your garage.
You take it out once in a while, drive around Milford and kind of go to a car show and all that kind of stuff.
But I wouldn't want that for my car for today.
Anybody with me?
I'm thankful for modern conveniences.
I'm thankful for modern inventions.
Really cool things have happened in the last 150 years, as far as inventions.
I don't know about you, but I wouldn't want to fly on that plane.
I mean, I would not buy a ticket for that trip.
And so I'm loving it when I'm in my seat.
There's a little bit more leg room.
If I'm on the aisle, I can stick my leg out until they bring the cart by.
They have to pull it in.
And then I have my peanuts and whatever else.
There's nothing wrong with all of that.
But we have to get back to simplicity.
Psalm 91, David talks about the shadow of the Almighty and staying in the shadow of the Almighty.
It's a wonderful thing.
We need to be in the shadow of the Almighty by ourselves and keeping it simple.
This is a book by Charles Swindle.
I'm going to bring it to a close here.
It's a book by Chuck Swindle on the life of David.
And so I read this several years ago, but I picked it up just recently to get my thoughts for today's message.
And he quotes a man named F.B.
Meyer.
F.B.
Meyer was a great pastor theologian.
He said this about David and his life
as a shepherd, on the gentle slopes of the hills, the fig olive and vine-grow luxuriant lee, and in the valleys are the rich corn fields, where Ruth once gleaned, and which gave place its name, the House of Bread, the morlins around Bethlehem, forming the greater part of the Judean plateau, do not, however, present features of soft beauty, but of our wild, gaunt, strong character breeding.
Their shepherds have always led and watched their flocks and their David first imbide that knowledge of the natural scenery and of pastoral pursuits which colored all of his life after life and poetry.
Such were the schools and school masters of his youth.
I thought about that as I read that I'm thinking, you know what?
Where David was was very simple, wasn't complex.
When he was out there as a pastor, before he was king, he was a pastor.
He was pastoring sheep, but all along he was learning how to lead.
He was learning how to pastor other people.
So when he gets to Psalm 23 and it says, the Lord is my shepherd.
And then he goes through six verses, which we're going to dig into in the next six weeks.
It's just incredible.
But he's out there.
He's out there in this not, not an easy place to be.
According to FB Meyer,
Psalm 23 is to be experiential.
If you could bring up the title slide again, experiencing Psalm 23.
I love the word experiencing.
I love it because I don't want to just read Psalm 23 and keep it up here.
I want to be living Psalm 23.
And that's what we're going to learn in the next several weeks together.
I hope that you'll join us.
I hope that when we look at the psalm, we'll be able to say, hey, God, there you are.
I recognize you as my pastor.
I don't know if you've ever looked at God as your pastor.
Have you ever thought that thought, anybody?
Not too many.
But he is our pastor.
He's our shepherd.
I want to recognize God in Psalm 23 in ways that I have never, ever thought possible.
Are you ready?
We're going to do this together.
Monday school I had my hat on.
This is my gut's hat.
And so I had that on.
And somebody comes in, I was over at the door greeting people as they're coming in there.
I didn't recognize you with the hat on.
I go out in public sometimes and I have just normal clothes on.
They say, well, you don't have your Sunday clothes, your pastor clothes.
I said, I don't know what pastor clothes are to me, but they didn't recognize me as pastor, I guess.
But what we're going to do in Psalm 23 is recognize God as pastor, as the shepherd.
Are you ready to do that?
We're going to do it together.
Let me close with these thoughts.
We're going to recognize God in Psalm 23 as Pastor and Shepherd in detail.
God is shepherding our church called Crossway.
He is ahead of us.
He's around us.
He's in us.
He's going to protect us.
He's going to feed us.
He's going to lead us.
This is what he does.
He'll never leave us alone, and he'll never let us down.
It's a manifesto, Psalm 23, to be lived by in real time, experientially.
There's only six verses.
So I think we can memorize six verses.
Wanna give it a try?
Try to memorize Psalm 23.
I want you to store it up for the storms that are gonna be coming in your life.
Store it up.
This is what you'll do.
We will experience the Psalm like never before.
So let's do this.
Go back to Psalm 23 and I'll end with this.
Psalm 23.
I want us to read it out loud together.
You're like, oh no, I didn't bring a Bible and I haven't memorized it.
Dog on it.
Psalm 23, ready, let's begin.
The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want.
He makes me lie down in green pastures.
He leads me beside still waters.
He restores my soul.
He leads me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake.
And even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil.
For you are with me.
Your rod and your staff, they comfort me.
You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies.
You anoint my head with oil, my cup overflows.
Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever."
Hallelujah.
Lord, praise you.
We thank you.
Holy Spirit, we pray that you would give us.
Unction, that you would give us.
Eyes to see and ears to hear.
We don't want to just put Psalm 23 in our brain.
We want it to be in our life.
We live this.
You are our pastor.
You shepherd us.
This is who you are to us.
And I pray, Lord, for a dear person in this room that might be feeling that they're a lost sheep, that they have wandered from the sheepfold.
God, I pray then in the sound of my prayer right now that they would realize that you've always been at work, that you've always been with them.
And so, God, I pray that you'd give them hope, give them peace, give them strength, helped them to realize that you're drawing them back to yourself.
You are shepherding their life, even in the darkest moments that they have gone through, even when the lights were turned out.
Somebody hit the switch and it's completely black.
Help them to realize, Lord, that you have been shepherding them.
This is who you are.
You're their pastor.
And so God help us to go through this series with your favor and your blessing.
We want to learn more.
Help us to memorize it.
Help us to live it.
In Jesus' name we all pray.
Amen?
God bless you.